---
title: Using Custom Methods
description: Learn how to define and use custom methods in your C# code actions
---

In addition to the `Execute()`{lang=cs} method, you can also define your own custom methods within the `CPHInline`{lang=cs} class.

## Adding Custom Methods

To add a custom method, simply define a new method within your `CPHInline`{lang=cs} class.

You can call your custom method from within the `Execute()`{lang=cs} method or from any other methods in the same class. This includes [Lifecycle Methods](/api/csharp/guide/lifecycle-methods), or even other custom methods you have defined.

```cs [Example.cs]
public bool Execute()
{
    CustomMethod(); // Call your custom method [!code highlight]

    int sum = Add(5, 10); // Call another custom method that takes parameters [!code highlight]

    return true;
}

public void CustomMethod()
{
    CPH.LogInfo("This is a custom method!"); // You can even use CPH methods here!
}

public int Add(int a, int b)
{
    return a + b; // This method takes two integers and returns their sum
}
```

This allows you to organize your code better, especially if you have repetitive tasks or complex logic that you want to encapsulate in separate methods.

## Sharing Methods Between Actions

::tip
**You can also expose your custom methods to other actions**, allowing you to execute them with from a sub-action, or even call them directly from other C# code actions.
::

To do this, your method must be declared as outlined below:
- Visibility must be `public`{lang=cs}
- Method must not take any parameters
- Return type must be `bool`{lang=cs}
  - Return `true`{lang=cs} to indicate success
  - Return `false`{lang=cs} to indicate failure and stop executeion of further sub-actions

```cs [Example.cs]
public bool CustomMethod()
{
    CPH.LogInfo("This is a custom method that can be called from other actions!");
    return true; // Return true to indicate success
}
```

::warning
You must define a `Name` in your [Execute C# Code sub-action](/api/sub-actions/core/csharp/execute-csharp-code) settings for it to be discoverable by other actions.
::

:read-more{to=/api/sub-actions/core/csharp/execute-csharp-code}

### Execute Method Sub-Action

To call your custom method from another action, you can use the [Execute C# Method](/api/sub-actions/core/csharp/execute-csharp-method) sub-action.

:read-more{to=/api/sub-actions/core/csharp/execute-csharp-method}

### C# ExecuteMethod

You can also call your custom method directly from another C# code action using the `ExecuteMethod()`{lang=cs} method of the `CPH`{lang=cs} class.

```cs [Example.cs]
public bool Execute()
{
    CPH.ExecuteMethod("YourActionName", "CustomMethod"); // [!code highlight]
    return true;
}
```

::tip
Replace `YourActionName` with the `Name` defined in your [Execute C# Code sub-action](/api/sub-actions/core/csharp/execute-csharp-code) settings and `CustomMethod` with the name of your C# method.
::