---
title: Speaker.bot v0.1.4
description: Upcoming changes in the next release!
version: 0.1.4
releaseDate: null
badge: Alpha
---

### New Features
::changelog-list{type="new"}
* Add new scopes for `Twitch Broadcaster` account
* Load `Twitch` Broadcaster's available emotes on login
* Add `VoiceGate` feature
* Add `Delete` menu item to a `User'`s context menu
* Add new option to ignore `Twemoji` Emotes
::

### Updates
::changelog-list{type="update"}
* Updated/added icons
* Tweaks and improvements to startup routines
* Update external libraries
* Rename and update some libraries
* Update `Twemoji` to `15.1.0`
* Better handling of `Twitch` Chat for high volume channels
* Performance tweaks surrounding `Twitch` Chat handling
* Remove support for `Twitch Hype Chats`
* `websocket-sharp` library updated
* Speed up connecting to `Twitch EventSub`
* Update sending of `Twitch` Chat Messages via the **API**, they are no longer sent through the IRC client.
* Increase keep-alive timeout for `Twitch EventSub` to 30s from the default of 10s
* Updated connection routines and UI for `StreamElements`
* Tweaks to `7TV` Server Side Events handling
* Fix handling of subscribed `Twitch` Viewers in chat messages, data could get out of sync when a re-sub or sub is not shared
* Move `Twitch VIP` Add to `EventSub` from `PubSub`
* Promote some `Twitch EventSub` subscriptions to `GA`
* Switch most of `Twitch PubSub` events to `EventSub` counterparts
* Improve the underlying socket code for the `Streamer.bot` Website integration
* Change some library file names to match others
* Improve the underlying socket code for the `Streamlabs` integration
* Use `Socket.io v4` for `Streamlabs` (from v3)
* Tweaks to `StreamElements` login routine
* Use `Pitch`/`Rate` as `Stability`/`Similarity` for `ElevenLabs`
* Perform an upgrade on `ElevenLabs` voices to set default `Pitch`/`Rate` to -1
* Update UI to reflect previous change when selecting an `ElevenLabs` voice
* Bring some internal elements inline with `Streamer.bot`, to share some code
* Completely remove fetching `Twitch`'s **banned** user list
* Remove `Twitch` ban related handling/information from `Twitch` Data db.
* Tweaks to auto update and restart handling
* Tweaks to initial application startup
* Update past voices repo with user's platform
* General tweaks to context menu handling
::

### Fixes
::changelog-list{type="fix"}
* Handle possible crash in parsing websocket subscribe messages
* Fix parsing of `ElevenLabs` default data
* Fix rate limit related to `Twitch` Ban list retreival, its not longer done
* Fix certain events not being broadcast to WebSocket correctly
* Don't require a past voice to be selected to clear a user's past voices
* Fix Global URL Filter setting not loading/saving correctly
::

## Details
### General
As part of a sweeping update, last stable release was November 2023, so there's some updates that Streamer.bot received, that have been applied to Speaker.bot as well, most are internal handling.  There is still some more I need to go through, so hopefully everything is working correctly.
### ElevenLabs
Going through `ElevenLabs` to add support for `Stability`/`Similarity`, I noticed a parsing error when getting default/voice settings.  A wrong data type was being used, causing `Stability` to be always `1`, and `Similarity` always `0`.  This is now fixed for default values.

`Pitch` and `Rate` are now being used as `Similarity` and `Stability` respectively for `ElevenLabs` voices, and acceptable values are `-1` for `default`, or `0` to `100` for a **percentage** value.

The `UI` will update when an `ElevenLabs` voice is selected, and show `Similarity` and `Stability`, and `Pitch`/`Rate` for all other voices.  This naming won't be changed everywhere, that is part of a future update.

`ElevenLabs` voices should now match, or as close as possible given variance, the voices generated from the website.
### Voice Gate
With this release, there is a new feature, `Voice Gate`.

What this will allow you to do, is monitor your microphone, or other input audio device, and set a threshold that would `auto-pause` Speaker.bot.

A threshold and timeout can be set that will `auto-unpause` Speaker.bot after it has been paused by the `Voice Gate`

The 3 settings that govern the VoiceGate, can be updated in real time to fine tune adjustments.

::callout{icon=i-mdi-alert color=amber}
Because the audio is touching input devices, `Speaker.bot` needs to open the device, however, **nothing is recorded**, the device is just opened.
::
### Twitch
#### New Scopes
The following scopes are required on the `broadcaster` account now, these supoport the move from `PubSub` events to `EventSub` events, as well as using the `API` to send a chat message
* user:write:chat
* user:read:emotes
* moderator:read:blocked_terms
* moderator:read:chat_settings
* moderator:read:unban_requests
* moderator:read banned_users
* moderator:read:chat_messages
* moderator:read:moderators
* moderator:read:vips
#### PubSub
It was mentioned in the last TwitchDev broadcast, that sometime in the near future PubSub would be deprecated. So starting with this alpha, I have moved a good majority of the events that rely on PubSub over to there counterparts on EventSub.
### StreamElements
The UI for StreamElements has been updated to have the split style with logging into your account, and sub-service connections. All the underlying code has also been updated to support this new common display.
