---
title: Speaker.bot v0.1.2
description: Released 2023-10-31
version: 0.1.2
releaseDate: 2023-10-31
---

## New Features
* Add some more logging during shutdown
* Add new TTS Engine, ElevenLabs.io
* Speech Engines tab has completely changed, and how engines are added and removed
* Add new methods, and tweaks to Websocket Server
* Add Twitch Subscription, Mod, Vip and Banned user information to Twitch Data
* Add a Headless Mode
* Speaker.bot and it's libraries are now digitally signed

## Updates
* Tweaks to LiteDB handling
* Tweaks to tts.Monster
* Change how shutdown works from an update
* Rewrite how Text To Speech engines are handled internally, its completely dynamic now, this enables some future features
* Faster initialization on load of enabled speech engines
* Websocket Service tweaks
* Add some more logging during shutdown
* Bad words filter is now case insensitive
* Update Amazon Polly, and Microsoft Azure packages
* Update a handful of packages
* Performance updates to Twitch Chat client
* Stop logging timing for 3rd party emote parsing
* Added ability to have Dialog Prompts timeout after a certain amount of time
* Twitch Authorization error dialog will timeout after 10s
* Speaking Queue and Speaking History have been merged into a Processing Tab

## Fixes
* Misc fixes and tweaks throughout
* Fix 7TV emotes not being parsed
* Fixes to shutdown routines
* Fix some threads not being stopped properly
* Fix Twitch EventSub related issues, potential duplicate events
* Fix default config version when running a fresh copy of the alpha
* Fix Usage db upgrade path
* UberDuck works again
* Various fixes that were applied to Streamer.bot have been brought across
* Handle potential issue on Twitch Broadcaster login

## Details
### Speaker.bot
Starting with this release of Speaker.bot, I can now digitally sign it, and it's accompanying libraries.

What does this mean? I'm hoping less (or no more) false positives and/or AV software nuking the exe before or while its running. Also, building a better level of trust within Windows, as well as you, the end-user.

In order to obtain the certificate used to digitally sign these applications, a legal entity has been setup, and undergone third-party (ssl.com) validation to verify it and the status of the company.

### New Engine
With the release of 0.1.2, Speaker.bot now supports a new engine, ElevenLabs.io!  Be sure to check them out.

### Uber Duck
Uber Duck seems to have undergone some major changes, and sadly, I was not aware of them to keep Speaker.bot up to date.  Moving forward, UberDuck no longer has all the community submitted voices.

Speaker.bot still supports what is available at UberDuck.

### Headless Mode
You read that right, you can now run Speaker.bot headless, as in no GUI, only a log file.

Consider this mode very very experimental, since there is no GUI initialization anymore.

To run Speaker.bot in headless mode, just add `/headless`, and to stop it, add `/shutdown` when running it.
`Speaker.bot.exe /headless`
`Speaker.bot.exe /shutdown`

### Streamer.bot Integration
Starting with **Streamer.bot v0.2.2-alpha.8**, there is a tighter integration between the two apps.

Within **Streamer.bot**, there is a new Speak sub-action, and it has 3 ways it can work.

1. How you're use to with the UDP in a fire and forget fashion
2. Silent option, when selected, this will only process the speech, and, if the setting is enabled in Speaker.bot, write the audio to a file, and will add a `%speechFile%` argument so you can pass it to a Play Sound sub-action, or other
3. Delay option, the most requested feature, yes, this will delay the sub-action from continuing until the audio has been played by Speaker.bot

Using either the Silent or Delay option also introduces a timeout of 30 seconds, so it does not get stuck, in a future version, this may be configurable (within reason)

Theese sub-actions within Streamer.bot, also add the duration of the speech to its arguments.

Again, at the moment, this new integration is only available in the alpha versions of Streamer.bot
