# Chat Commands

Interact with your Speaker.bot instance directly from Twitch chat!

## Default Commands

::list{type=primary}
- The following commands are made available by Speaker.bot automatically
::

Name | Description
:----|:------------
`!tts status` :copy-button{content="!tts status"} | Get the current Speaker.bot application status.
`!tts voices` :copy-button{content="!tts voices"} | How many voices (and by type) are available.
`!tts pause/resume` :copy-button{content="!tts pause"} | Pause or resume the TTS event queue.
`!tts clear` :copy-button{content="!tts clear"} | Clear all pending events in the TTS event queue.
`!tts stop` :copy-button{content="!tts stop"} | If TTS is currently speaking, stop *only* the current speech.
`!tts mode [all\|command]` :copy-button{content="!tts mode all"} | Toggle between needing a command to speak and saying everything.
`!tts commands` :copy-button{content="!tts commands"} | List all available custom commands.
`!tts [off\|disable]` :copy-button{content="!tts disable"} | Disable the TTS engine.
`!tts [on\|enable]` :copy-button{content="!tts enable"} | Enable the TTS engine (if it has been disabled).
`!tts ignore [add\|del] [username]` :copy-button{content="!tts ignore add [username]"} | Sets the ignore status of the specified user.
`!tts ignored` :copy-button{content="!tts ignored"} | List currently ignored users.
`!tts reg [add\|del] [username]` :copy-button{content="!tts reg add [username]"} | Add or remove user from being a regular.
`!tts events [on\|off]` :copy-button{content="!tts events on"} | Toggle speaking of all events (subs, cheer, etc).
`!tts random reset [username]` :copy-button{content="!tts random reset [username]"} | Resets a user back to there default voice, typically used if sticky random is enabled.
`!tts set nickname [username] [nickname]` :copy-button{content="!tts set nickname [username] [nickname]"} | Assigns a nickname to be said when enabled in the bot
`!tts set sticky [on\|off]` :copy-button{content="!tts set sticky on"} | Sets the sticky mode, if users are set to random, there first spoken voice will stick for the duration, unless reset using the above.
`!tts assign last [username]` :copy-button{content="!tts assign last [username]"} | Will assign the last used voice to the user specified.
`!tts [about\|aboot]` :copy-button{content="!tts about"} | Sends to chat the information about your TwitchSpeaker instance.

## Custom Commands

::list{type=info}
- Navigate to the `Custom Commands` tab in Speaker.bot
::

Custom commands allow you to create TTS chat commands with a specified voice and user permissions configuration.

### Add Command
You can create a custom command by filling out the fields detailed below, then clicking the `Add` button.

#### `Command`
Enter the name you want to use for this command.
- Example: `!say`

#### `Voice Alias`
Select the voice to use with this command.

#### `Permissions`
Restrict this command to specific Twitch user roles.

### Modify Command
To modify any existing command, select it in the list and change any fields you like.

### Delete Command
To delete any existing command, select it in the list and then click the `Delete` button.
