# Events

Connect incoming events with TTS actions!

::list{type=info}
- Navigate to the `Events` tab in Speaker.bot
::

## Global Settings

### Voice Alias
By default, the Speaker.bot voice alias found in `Settings -> General` will be used for events.

To change this behavior and select a specific voice alias for all event messages, you can modify this `Voice Alias`setting.

### Enabled
::list{type=primary}
- The `Enabled` toggle will enable or disable event messages globally.
::

## Per-Event Settings
All incoming events can be configured with **multiple** TTS messages.

Each event supports the following configuration options:

### Message
- Type: `Text`
- Note: [Variables](#variables) are supported

Enter the message to be spoken by TTS.

#### Variables
To use a variable in a TTS response, surround the variable `name` with `%`

- Example: `Thank you, %name% for donating %bits% bits!`

The following variables are available in the `Message` field:

Name | Description
----:|:------------
`name` | Say the name of the user who triggered the event
`level` | Say the current level of a Hype Train
`gift` | Say the amount of gift subs given to the community
`subtier` | Say the tier of the subscription
`title` | Say the title of the channel point reward redeemed
`cost` | Say the cost of the channel point redemption that has been triggered
`bits` | Say the number of bits cheered
`amount` | Say the amount bits / money / channel points used or donated
`percent` | Say the percentage of completion of a hype train or a community goal etc.
`currency` | Say the currency used in the donation message
`tier` | Say the tier of the Subscription gifted
`recipient` | Say who received a gift sub
`cumulative` | Say how long a user has been subscribed to the channel
`message` | Say the text that is pass through with a sub, resub or donation

### Weight
- Type: `Number`

When an event contains multiple potential message responses, Speaker.bot will choose an event at random.

By modifying the `Weight` attribute, you can increase the probability of specific messages being selected.

### Enabled
- Type: `Checkbox`

Enable or disable this message.

## Event States

`Event States` allow you to quickly enable or disable specific events from being spoken.

You can also configure minimum requirements for `Raid Viewers`, `Cheers`, and `Donations` to be spoken.