---
title: Backup & Restore
description: Easily fix things when they go wrong!
---

## Introduction
Streamer.bot **automatically** performs backups any time you open the application, close the application, or perform an update.

You can use these backups to fully restore your data, in case you accidentally deleted something and would like to restore it.

You can even fix catastrophic scenarios preventing you from starting up Streamer.bot by simply restoring an automatic backup!

::callout{icon=i-mdi-folder}
Automatic backups will always be located in the `backups` folder within your Streamer.bot app directory
::

::callout{icon=i-mdi-lightbulb color=amber}
You can quickly find your backups location by clicking the menu :icon{name=i-mdi-menu} icon  and clicking `Open Log Folder`. If you then navigate up one directory from here, you should see the `backups` folder.
::

Two types of backups are automatically generated:

- **Data Backup**
    - Contains all configuration from your bot, such as actions, settings, etc
    - Created on every startup, shutdown, or `Save` within Streamer.bot
    - Saved as `backups/backup-[date]-[time].zip`
- **Application Backup**
    - Contains a full backup of the current Streamer.bot version, including application files necessary for Streamer.bot to execute
    - Created when performing an automatic update
    - Saved as `backups/app-backup-[version]-[date]-[time].zip

## Restoring Backups
### Data

::callout{icon=i-mdi-alert color=red}
**Close Streamer.bot** to ensure there are no conflicts during the restoration process.
::

Navigate to your `backups` directory and select a data backup. Pay attention to the `[date]-[time]` parts of the filename to determine which backup you would like to restore. Typically, you want to choose the most recent backup from **before** the latest.

- Open the backup `.zip` file and copy the contents
- Return to your Streamer.bot directory and navigate to the `data` folder.
- Paste the backup contents here

::callout{icon=i-mdi-alert color=amber}
If a `Replace or Skip Files` dialog appears, choose 'Replace the file in the destination'.
::

::callout{icon=i-mdi-lightbulb color=amber}
You can also open your `data` directory and selected `backup.zip` in separate windows, and view them side-by-side. YOu can then simply drag-and-drop the contents across. This is the method used in the [video tutorial](#video-tutorial) below.
::

The next time you open Streamer.bot your backup configuration will be loaded!

::callout{icon=i-mdi-lightbulb color=amber}
Sometimes you may need to repeat this process to restore an even earlier version
::

### App Rollback

::callout{icon=i-mdi-alert color=red}
**Close Streamer.bot** to ensure there are no conflicts during the restoration process.
::

Application backups allow you to roll back to previous versions of Streamer.bot

This can be useful if you experienced an update failure which did not automatically revert during the update process, or if you are debugging a fatal crash.

::callout{icon=i-mdi-alert color=amber}
We always recommend to stay on the latest version unless absolutely necessary.
::

Navigate to your `backups` directory and select an application backup (files prefixed with `app-backup`).

Note the `[date]-[time]` parts of your selected backup as these will allow you to find your matching [Data Backup](#data).

- Open the app backup `.zip` file and copy the contents
- Return to your main Streamer.bot directory
- Paste the backup contents here
- Find your matching data backup `.zip` file, open it, and copy the contents
- Return to your Streamer.bot directory and navigate to the `data` folder
- Paste the data contents here to restore your configuration files

::callout{icon=i-mdi-check color=green}
You can now start Streamer.bot and if everything went smoothly you will be on the selected version!
::

## Video Tutorial

<iframe width="100%" height="400" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dLkiqW2b_Vo?si=a6OeCsxtk5F5Rtrf" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>