---
title: WebSocket API
description: Control Speaker.bot in real-time via WebSocket!
navigation.title: Configuration
---

## Configuration

::list{type=info}
- Navigate to `Settings -> WebSocket Server` in Speaker.bot
::

#### `Auto Start`
- Type: `Boolean`{lang=ts}
- Default: `false`{lang=ts}

Enable this flag to automatically start the `WebSocket Server` when Speaker.bot is launched.

If this is not enabled, you must manually click the `Start Server` button any time you want to enable WebSocket connectivity.

#### `Address`
- Type: `String`{lang=ts}
- Default: `127.0.0.1`{lang=ts}

Change the `WebSocket Server` host address.

This can be useful if you want to expose the WebSocket server to additional machines on your local network, or even over the internet.

#### `Port`
- Type: `Number`{lang=ts}
- Default: `7680`{lang=ts}

Change the `WebSocket Server` port.

It is not recommended to change this unless you have another service using this port or know what you are doing.

#### `Endpoint`
- Type: `String`{lang=ts}
- Default: `/`{lang=ts}

Change the `WebSocket Server` endpoint.

This will change the URL endpoint used to connect to the server, e.g. `http://127.0.0.1/myendpoint`

## Request Format

All `WebSocket Server` requests follow a similar format, which is also used by [Streamer.bot](https://streamer.bot).

```json [Request Format]
{
  "id": "<id>",
  "request": "<command>"
}
```

#### `id`
- Type: `String`{lang=ts}

Any identifier or nonce you wish to use to identify your request.

#### `request`
- Type: `String`{lang=ts}

The name of the supported request.

::callout{color=amber icon=i-mdi-lightbulb}
All supported requests are documented on the next page.
::