---
title: Introduction
description: A brief introduction to Streamer.bot
---

## Your Bot
::list
- With Streamer.bot, the bot is **yours**!
::

Streamer.bot is a **local** bot, meaning all connections are made directly from your local PC to any configured external services, such as Twitch, YouTube, etc.

This means you have **full ownership and control** of any data stored in Streamer.bot, and **your bot does not depend on a central 3rd party service** to continue operating.

## Fundamentals
While Streamer.bot allows for very advanced functionality, it can be used by experts and novices alike.

In all cases, it is important to understand the basic fundamental building blocks of creating with Streamer.bot:

::list
- Actions & Sub-Actions
- Triggers & Events
- Variables
::

In this guide, we'll walk you through each of these concepts step-by-step.

### Actions & Sub-Actions
Actions are the backbone of Streamer.bot, as they act as the core entity responsible for both creating & organizing your logical pieces (sub-actions), and for executing all of that logic at once.

Simply put, an action can consist of one or more [sub-actions](#actions-sub-actions), and can react to one or more [triggers](#triggers-events).

Learn more about [sub-actions](#actions-sub-actions) and [triggers](#triggers-events) below.

#### Sub-Actions
Sub-Actions are the individual logical pieces of your [actions](#actions-sub-actions) which allow you to perform a wide range of various interactions.

There are currently more than `200` sub-actions available in Streamer.bot, such as:
- [Sending messages to Twitch Chat](/api/sub-actions/platforms/twitch/chat/send-message-to-channel)
- [Controlling OBS Studio](/api/sub-actions/broadcasters/obs-studio)
- [Posting messages to Discord](/api/sub-actions/integrations/discord)
- [Playing TTS (text-to-speech) Audio with Speaker.bot](/api/sub-actions/integrations/speakerbot)

::callout{icon=i-mdi-bookmark color=green to=/api/sub-actions}
Explore all available sub-actions in the [Sub-Actions API References](/api/sub-actions)
::

You can combine as many of these together as you wish to create complex interactivity, or simply use a single sub-action to do something like send a message to your stream chat.

::list
 - **If you can think of it, chances are you can do it with Sub-Actions!**
::

::callout{icon="i-mdi-lightbulb" color=primary to="https://ideas.streamer.bot" target=_blank}
If you have any suggestions for new Sub-Actions, you can submit them to [Streamer.bot Ideas & Suggestions](https://ideas.streamer.bot)
::

### Triggers & Events
**Events** occur whenever something happens on any of your configured services or integrations.

Any of these events can then be used as a **trigger** to execute your configured actions.

There are currently over `150` triggers available in Streamer.bot, such as:
- [Twitch Chat Message Received](/api/triggers/platforms/twitch)
- [OBS Studio Events](/api/triggers/broadcasters/obs-studio)
- [Chat Commands](/api/triggers/general/core/commands)
- [Timed Actions](/api/triggers/general/core/timed-actions)

::callout{icon=i-mdi-bookmark color=green to=/api/triggers}
Explore all available triggers in the [Triggers API References](/api/triggers)
::

Actions can be executed by multiple triggers, and you can assign the same trigger to multiple actions.

Most triggers will also provide a set of [variables](#variables) with related event data that then can be used by any sub-actions.

### Variables
Whenever one of your actions executes, there will always be a set of data values associated with it, called **variables**.

#### Variable Sources
Variables can come from [triggers](#triggers-events), which often contain a set of related event data, and they can also come from previous sub-actions within an action.

For example, the [Twitch Chat Message Trigger](/api/triggers/platforms/twitch) will provide you with various variables, including the name of the chatter, and the message content.

In another example, the [Get Random Number Sub-Action](/api/sub-actions/core) will provide you with a variable containing a random number value.

#### Using Variables
Variable names and example values are documented throughout the [Triggers Reference](/api/triggers) and [Sub-Actions Reference](/api/sub-actions) pages.

To access these values in subsequent sub-actions, you can wrap the variable name with percent symbols.

For example, a variable named `randomNumber` can be accessed within configuration text boxes of subsequent sub-actions by typing `%randomNumber%`.

::list{type=warning}
- Variables are always **case sensitive**
::

#### Action History
You can use the action history view to inspect any variables that were populated within a given action.

This view can be found by navigating to `Action Queues -> Action History`

Here you will see a list of all previous action executions. To inspect the variables generated by a specific action, right click the row and select `Inspect Variables After Run`.

#### Variable Types
When you begin to build more complex interactions with Streamer.bot, you will probably want to store data that can be accessed across multiple actions, permanently persisted, or event store data for specific users.

Streamer.bot provides variable types for each of these use cases, [Global Variables](/guide/variables#global-variables) and [User Variables](/guide/variables#user-variables)

## Start Building
Now that you have a basic understanding of these building blocks, you're ready to start building!

Continue to the installation guide below, or explore further into the [Configuration Guide](/guide) and full [API References](/api) documentation.

::callout{color=green icon=i-mdi-check-circle}
**Welcome to Streamer.bot, enjoy your stay!**
::