---
title: Installation
description: Download and install the latest version of Streamer.bot
---

## Install
::collapsible{name="Video Tutorial"}
  :youtube-embed{id="s_h9IPNLme0"}
::

1. Download Streamer.bot

    Click the button below to download the latest `stable` version of Streamer.bot.

    ::card-group{.mt-3 .mb-3}
      ::card{icon=i-mdi-download title="Streamer.bot" to=https://streamer.bot/api/releases/streamer.bot/latest/download target=_blank}
      Download the latest stable version of Streamer.bot
      ::
    ::

2. Extract

    Extract the `.zip` archive to your desired location.

    ::warning
    Avoid synced storage, such as OneDrive, Google Drive, etc, as these can cause unexpected issues.
    ::

    Streamer.bot is a **portable** application, no further installation is needed!

3. Open!

    Open the directory where you chose to extract the archive and execute `Streamer.bot.exe`!

    ::success
    Streamer.bot should now be up and running!
    ::

## Update
By default, the built-in auto updater will prompt you to update when new `stable` versions of Streamer.bot are available.

You can optionally receive `alpha` or `beta` releases by connecting the [Streamer.bot Website Integration](/guide/integrations/streamerbot)

Once you have connected to the website, you can change your update release channel:

::collapsible{name="Video Tutorial"}
  :youtube-embed{id="R51_CW15e3U"}
::

1. Check for Updates

    Click the menu :icon{name=i-mdi-menu} button in the top-left corner of Streamer.bot, and select `Check for Updates` to open the updater dialog.

    ::success
    If an update is available, you will be prompted to download and install it automatically.
    ::

2. Change Update Channel (Optional)

    In the top-right corner of the dialog, select your desired `Update Channel`

    ::success
    **Beta** updates are available to **everyone**, by joining the Discord and linking with Streamer.bot
    ::
    ::callout{icon=i-simple-icons-patreon}
    **Alpha** updates are only available to **Silver Tier** subscribers on [Patreon](https://patreon.com/nate1280){target=_blank}
    ::


## Linux Support
Linux support for Streamer.bot is **experimental and not officially supported.**

:read-more{to="/get-started/installation/linux"}