---
title: FAQ
description: Frequently Asked Questions
---

### 1. Why can I no longer assign an action to an event?
Since update v0.2.0, the actions are no longer assigned in the event, but the other way round. In the *Actions* tab, you will now find a *Triggers* area in which you can select an event/trigger like commands or a subscription for the respective action. (Example: [see here](<https://i.imgur.com/r4orRtM.gif>))

### 2. Is it possible to have a dynamic delay for the duration of the TTS?
Once version v0.2.3 goes live (currently in alpha), there will be an option to have that. As for now, you can stick to an estimated delay that counts the characters of the text, [see here](<https://discord.com/channels/834650675224248362/877868281363562496/1027679486763880468>).

### 3. My TTS is speaking twice, why's that?
On rare occasions the UDP broadcast can cause SpeakerBot to speak twice. The next version of StreamerBot (v0.2.3, currently in alpha) will add a websocket speak subaction that won't cause this issue. As for now, a PC restart will fix this. You can also switch to websocket speak subactions vía C#, [see here](<https://discord.com/channels/834650675224248362/878250435125841940/1171661691042414622>).

### 4. Why is my StreamerBot not connecting to OBS?
This can have various reasons. First of all make sure that *Enable WebSocket server* is checked in OBS. If StreamerBot and OBS are running on the same PC, use `127.0.0.1` as the IP, otherwise make sure the Server IP matches. Port and password have to match aswell, if on the same network you can also just deactivate authentification. In rare cases the default port `4455` is already occupied, in that case try to change it to something else, like `4456` or `1234`. Last but not least make sure to choose `v5.x` on the connection in StreamerBot.

### 5. How do I run a random subaction?
You can either rightclick an action and check *Random*, so a single subaction within the action is being picked randomly. Or you can create a group within the subactions, then rightclick that group and check *Random*. This will then only run a random subaction **within** the group. All the other subactions in the action outside the group will run from top to bottom as usual. (Example: [see here](<https://i.imgur.com/V60zhg5.gif>))

**Note**: Once "Random" is checked, you can rightclick the subactions and set their weight to set their probabilities.

### 6. How do I know which variables are available?
The easiest way would be to check out <https://docs.streamer.bot/> and look for the trigger or subaction you are using. A full list of variables will be given there, e.g. [*Twitch Follow* trigger](<https://docs.streamer.bot/api/triggers/twitch/channel/follow>). A second method would be to run the action, then go into the *Action Queues* tab, into the *Action History* and then doubleclick the action that has run. This will give you all variables that have been populated. (Example: [see here](<https://i.imgur.com/sc2Mo41.png>))

### 7. Why is my trigger blue?
A blue trigger means it *always runs*. This usually goes for triggers that have their criteria set to *Any* (like the *Twitch Subscription* trigger that has everything checked and will fire for all sub tiers). If you have a second *Twitch Subscription* trigger that only has *tier 3* checked, this one obviously won't always run but only does for tier 3 subs. In this case, both the triggers will fire on a tier 3 sub, but only the first one does on a tier 1 sub.

### 8. How do I get the profile picture or most recent game of a Twitch user?
Those variables are being populated by the *Get User Info For Target* subaction (`Twitch -> User`). For *Source Type* you can then choose between different sources. *User* is the one who redeems the trigger (e.g. the one who follows on a *Follow* trigger or uses the command on a *Command Triggered* trigger). *From Input* uses the `%rawInput%` as the target, so the command  `!command nate1280` would populate the variables for user *nate1280*. Just make sure the command location is set to *Start* in its settings. You can also choose *Variable* and type a variable like `%randomUser0%` in there if you have a preceding *Add Random Viewer* subaction.

### 9. How do I prevent my actions from overlapping/running multiple times at once?
Go into the *Action Queues* tab, then into *Queues* and create a new queue (`Rightclick -> Add`). Give it any name you like and check *Blocking*. Now go back into your *Actions* tab and assign the queue to all the actions you want in there by editing the action (Doubeclick the action or Rightclick -> Edit). Now the upcoming actions will only start running once the previous one has finished.

### 10. Can I run multiple subactions at once instead of one by one?
By rightclicking an action, you can check *Concurrent*. This will cause subactions to all run at the same time instead of going from top to bottom as usual.

### 11. How do if/else-subactions work?
[Here](<https://media.discordapp.net/attachments/834650675740540941/1081280562569936976/if_else_streamerBot.png?ex=65d8e27f&is=65c66d7f&hm=82c8b080e8fb8efd37576ad8221c706fdab3aa3e12b3a2c6ba3fedb172c389a1&=&format=webp&quality=lossless&width=763&height=643>) is a flowchart that shows how they work.

### 12. How can I exclude bots/certain users from an action like *First Words*?
For the most cases, this can be accomplished by an if/else-subaction (`Core -> Logic -> If/Else`). To goal is to check for the username and if it matches, break the action (`if user equals (Ignore Case) TheUserName break, else continue`). [See here](<https://i.imgur.com/aySJPDH.png>) for an example. You can also make use of groups (`Settings -> Groups`) and check if a user is in a group and break the action if they are (see [**13.**](<https://docs.streamer.bot/get-started/faq#_13-how-do-check-if-a-user-in-a-group>))


### 13. How do I check whether a user is in a group?
This can be done with C#. Create a subaction `Core -> C# -> Execute C# Code`) and paste the code below in there. Replace *group1*  with the name of your group. Hit *Save and Compile* afterwards. This will provide the `%inGroup%` variable, that you can then check against in an if/else-subaction (`if inGroup equals True continue, else break`).


```csharp
using System;

public class CPHInline
{
    public bool Execute()
    {

        string userId = args["userId"].ToString();
        string groupName = "group1";
        bool inGroup = CPH.UserIdInGroup(userId,groupName);
        CPH.SetArgument("inGroup",inGroup);
        return true;
    }
}
```

### 14. Can the bot send whispers?
Yes, though this can only be done with C# (`Core -> C# -> Execute C# Code`). Note that there are certain requirements and limitations when it comes to whispers: to send a whisper you need a verified phone number (so does your bot if you are sending it with the bot account), whisper limits can be seen [here](<https://docs.streamer.bot/api/triggers/twitch/chat/whispers>). You will **not** be able to see whether a whisper has been sent successfully.

This code example sends a whisper to the user who is redeeming a command:

```csharp
using System;

public class CPHInline
{
    public bool Execute()
    {

        string user = args["user"].ToString();
        string message = "Hello, this is a test whisper message!";
        CPH.SendWhisper(user, message, true); //set "true" to "false" if you want to send the whisper with your broadcaster account
        return true;
    }
}
```

### 15. Can I get a dynamic delay of an OBS media source?
Yes, this can be done with OBS Raw (`OBS -> Raw`) and a [GetMediaInputStatus request](<https://obs-raw.streamer.bot/#GetMediaInputStatus>). Paste the code below into the Raw subaction and replace the inputName with the name of your media source. This request will populate a `%obsRaw.mediaDuration%` variable that gives the media duration in milliseconds. You can then use that variable within the *Delay* subaction.

__Note__: For the variable to populate, the media source needs to be visible. Use a *Set Source Visibility State* subaction to make it visible, add a delay of 100ms and then use the Raw subaction. (Example: [see here](<https://i.imgur.com/mSk7leg.png>))

```json
{
  "requestType": "GetMediaInputStatus",
  "requestData": {
    "inputName": "Your Media Source"
  }
}
```

### 16. Can StreamerBot change the settings within a filter (like Move Value or Move Source)?
This can be done with an OBS Raw subaction (`OBS -> Raw`) and a [SetSourceFilterSettings request](<https://obs-raw.streamer.bot/#SetSourceFilterSettings>). To find out what the correct settings for a request are called, you can manually set the settings on your filter and do a [**Get**SourceFilter request](<https://obs-raw.streamer.bot/#GetSourceFilter>) beforehand. This will give you the list of settings.

In [this example](<https://i.imgur.com/DLDHeyo.png>) a GetSourceFilter request for a *Move Value* filter with a *Type Writer* effect on a text source was done and returned `"settings_text"`. So we use that in our **Set**SourceFilterSettings request [like so](<https://i.imgur.com/zODVEtJ.png>).

You can also use variables within the request (__Note__: If you click "Test" on the Raw subaction, the variable won't be populated. In that case you will have to test the entire action).

```json
{
  "requestType": "SetSourceFilterSettings",
  "requestData": {
    "sourceName": "Test Text Source",
    "filterName": "Move Value",
    "filterSettings": {
      "setting_text": "%user% said: %rawInput%"
    },
    "overlay": true
  }
}
```
This can also be done for filters on a scene, but you won’t be able to select it on the OBS Raw website. In that case, do a request in a subaction, use the scene name as the sourceName and hit “Test”.

### 17. How can I enable actions/rewards/commands based on the current game running?

There are two options. The first one would be to trigger whenever you change your category on Twitch. You'd use the [Stream Update](<https://docs.streamer.bot/api/triggers/twitch/general/stream-update>) trigger and create an if/else-subaction (`Core -> Logic -> If/Else`) to check for:
`if gameName equals GameX do ActionY`, where ActionY would contain all subactions to enable/disable whatever you want.

The second option is to check for when the game process starts on your PC. You'd use the [Process Started](<https://docs.streamer.bot/api/triggers/core/processes/process-started>) trigger (`Core -> Processes -> Process Started`) for that. You can then specify the name within the trigger, it usually is just the name that pops up in your [task manager](<https://i.imgur.com/KM6XS0b.png>). If there are multiple process names available, try them out one by one and see which one triggers the action.

**Note**: Some games with anticheat will prevent you from using the process as a trigger.

### 18. Why are my variables like %user% or %rawInput% not parsing when used on the Quick Action Bar for the internal chat?
The variables for the Quick Action Bar are different from the ones in commands or rewards. It's `%displayName%` instead of `%user%` or `%message%` instead of `%rawInput%`. To see all available variables on the Quick Action Bar, see [** FAQ #6**](<https://docs.streamer.bot/get-started/faq#_6-how-do-i-know-which-variables-are-available>).

### 19. Can I reset all global user variables?
Yes, this can be accomplished with C#.

Example:
```csharp
using System;

public class CPHInline
{
    public bool Execute()
    {
        CPH.UnsetAllUsersVar("yourVariableName", true); // leave it at "true" for persisted variables, change to "false" for temp variables
        return true;
    }
}
```

### 20. How can I use variables from StreamerBot in a C# code?
Before using variables from triggers or subactions in a C# code, you will need to import them. The method depends on the variable type you are trying to import, see [**here**](<https://wiki.streamer.bot/en/Sub-Actions/Code/CSharp/Streamerbot-Variables>).

Example to import the `%user%` variable (string):
```csharp
using System;

public class CPHInline
{
    public bool Execute()
    {
        string user = args["user"].ToString();
        return true;
    }
}
```

**Note**: If you import a variable that has not been populated, the code will break at this point. For dynamic triggers you can prevent that by giving them a default value in case they don't exist within StreamerBot:
```csharp
string user = args.ContainsKey("user") ? args["user"].ToString() : null;
```
In this example, if `%user%` doesn't exist, it will have the value `null` and the code will continue to run.


### 21. Can I use math in a subaction?
Yes, for most cases you will need a *Set Argument* subaction (`Core -> Arguments -> Set Argument`). In there you can use [inline functions](<https://wiki.streamer.bot/en/Inline-Functions>). Choose any variable name and then do the math in the *Value* field. If you wanted to convert seconds to milliseconds to then use it in a delay subaction, you can do it like this: `$math(%secondsVariable% * 1000)$`. Simply use the newly named variable in a *Delay* subaction afterwards. (Example: [see here](<https://i.imgur.com/8RoLBgN.png>))

### 22. What are global variables?
Unlike regular variables, global variables can be used within different actions that are unrelated to each other. Variables only exist within one action (or within the chain of actions if you run an action inside an action) and are "gone" once the action has run. If you saved a global variable, you'd be able to use it anywhere with the *Global (Get)* subaction (`Core -> Globals -> Global (Get)`. 

__Example:__
*Action 1* has a *Raid* trigger and we want to save the latest raider to a global variable. So we create a *Global (Set)* subaction, name our global variable `latestRaider` and give it the value of the argument/variable `user` ([see image here](<https://i.imgur.com/hbQ3xEZ.png>)).
Now in *Action 2* we call that global variable with the *Global (Get)* subaction again and output it in a Twitch message ([see image here](<https://i.imgur.com/ieMMtei.png>)). *Variable Name* is the actual name of our variable that we've set in the *Global (Set)* subaction. *Destination Variable* is what we use in upcoming subaction (you can leave that the same as the *Variable Name*, it will cause less confusion). The *Default Value* is the value the variable gets when it has **not** been set before. So if Action 1 never got triggered before, the *Global (Get)* subaction would create the global variable itself and give it the value of `noone`. 

**Note:**
- `Persisted` global variables stay saved until you delete them. You can also call those into different action without a preceding *Global (Get)* subaction by using `~variableName~` instead of `%variableName%`.
- `Non persisted` global variables get deleted once you close StreamerBot.
- There are also persisted & non-persisted global **user** variables. Those will give an individual user their unique value.
