---
title: Events
description: Connect incoming events with TTS actions!
navigation.icon: mdi:volume
---

::navigate
Navigate to the **Events** tab in Speaker.bot
::

## Global Event Settings

::field-group
  ::field{name="Voice Alias"}
    By default, the Speaker.bot voice alias found in `Settings -> General` will be used for all TTS messages.
    <br>
    This setting allows you to override that alias for all event messages.
  ::

  ::field{name="Enabled"}
    Toggle to enable or disable all event messages globally.
  ::
::

## Per-Event Settings

::tip
All incoming events can be configured with **multiple** TTS messages.
::

Each event supports the following configuration options:

::field-group
:::field{name="Message" type="Text"}
The TTS message to be spoken when the event is triggered.
:::tip
[Variables](#variables) are supported in event messages.
:::
:::

:::field{name="Weight" type="Number"}
When an event contains multiple potential message responses, Speaker.bot will choose an event at random.
<br>
By modifying the `Weight` attribute, you can increase the probability of specific messages being selected.
:::

:::field{name="Enabled" type="Toggle"}
Enable or disable this specific event message.
:::

:::field{name="Event States" type="Checkbox Group"}
`Event States` allow you to quickly enable or disable specific events from being spoken.
<br>
You can also configure minimum requirements for `Raid Viewers`, `Cheers`, and `Donations` to be spoken.
:::
::

## Variables

::tip
To use a variable in a TTS response, surround the variable name with `%`, e.g. `%name%`{lang=cs}
- Full Example: `Thank you, %name% for donating %bits% bits!`{lang=cs}
::

The following variables are available in the `Message` field:

Name | Description
----:|:------------
`name` | Say the name of the user who triggered the event
`level` | Say the current level of a Hype Train
`gift` | Say the amount of gift subs given to the community
`subtier` | Say the tier of the subscription
`title` | Say the title of the channel point reward redeemed
`cost` | Say the cost of the channel point redemption that has been triggered
`bits` | Say the number of bits cheered
`amount` | Say the amount bits / money / channel points used or donated
`percent` | Say the percentage of completion of a hype train or a community goal etc.
`currency` | Say the currency used in the donation message
`tier` | Say the tier of the Subscription gifted
`recipient` | Say who received a gift sub
`cumulative` | Say how long a user has been subscribed to the channel
`message` | Say the text that is pass through with a sub, resub or donation
`input` | Say the text that is pass along a channel point reward