---
title: Streamer.bot v0.2.3
description: Upcoming changes in the next release!
version: 0.2.3
releaseDate: null
badge: Alpha
---

## New Features
::changelog-list{type=new}
* Add new [Simulated Events](#simulated-events)
* Add a new Dialog that can be used within **Streamer.bot** to search for Twitch user's both from the internal cache, and from within Twitch itself
* Add a way to disable unused sub-actions
* Add a way to disable unused triggers
* Allow re-organizing of triggers, this is only a visual thing
* Add new C# Method, `TwitchUserInfo TwitchGetBot();`
* Add 7 new triggers for Streamlabs Desktop
* Add new historical data collection to Twitch Data. `Subscriptions`, `Gift Bombs`, and `Hype Trains` are now recorded
* Add option to disable Present Viewers timer for Twitch
* Add option to completely disable the Action History, as well as Pending items
* Add an option to disable the Viewers Tab, for performance reasons
* Add an option to disable Twitch Present Viewers tick completely
* Add ability to remove users from a group in the UI, by way of a right click context menu
* Add new C# Method `List<GlobalVariableValue> GetGlobalVarValues(bool persisted = true)`
* Add new sub-action to Get the SubCounter Count
* Add new sub-action to Set the SubCounter Count
* Add the display of the current SubCounter Count to the SubCounter tab
* Add ability to edit the current value of the SubCounter in the UI
* Add new sub-action to Add a Twitch User to a Group
* Add new sub-action to Remove a Twitch User from a Group
* Add a new integration for `Fourthwall`
* Add direct support for `alejo.io pronouns`
* Add a new platform, `Trovo`, as well as a new database to store platform specific data
* Add 2 new C# Methods for accessing data in args
* Add 2 new C# Methods for clearing non-persisted variables
* Add a new context menu on a user to delete them
* Add option to hide Splash Screen
* Process Watcher is now a service that you can start and stop, with an auto start option, by default is is stopped.
* `Headless` Mode
* Add Timed Actions, Custom Websocket Servers and Clients to Import/Export
* Add an option to flag an action as Auto Run on Import
* Add new sub-action, Set Sub-action State
* Add new trigger for Twitch Bot Chat Client Connected and Disconnected
* Add a new File Tail service
* Add a way to add a list of Twitch users to a group
* Add new context menu item to groups, to search for a Twitch user (uses the new User Search dialog)
* Add new collection to Twitch Data, Banned Users, this will keep track of banned users in your channel.
* Add new integration for Speaker.bot
* Add new Speaker.bot Speak sub-action
* Add platform icons to Viewer list
* Add setting to auto-open chat on startup
* Request 2 new scopes on your Twitch Broadcaster account, related to the new Ad API calls that were added
::

## Updates
::changelog-list{type=update}
* Twitch Hype Train progress was re-added back to credits handling
* Move `Crowd Control` triggers under `Integrations`
* Don't color a trigger as blue if there are no criteria for it
* Better handling of Twitch Chat for high volume channels
* Performance tweaks surrounding Twitch Chat handling
* More Twitch Reply information is added to the arguments, inspect an action that has a reply to see all the new fields, and note `replyTo` is no longer available.
* Tweaks to some internal classes
* Update Twitch SubCounter to move its data to the twitch data db for better saving
* Update underlying control in Groups tab that shows the users in a group
* Tweaks and improvements to startup routines
* Remove Labs option to use the old queue
* Move Performance options to General Settings Tab
* Move Action Queue related sub-actions to an Action Queues sub-menu
* Do Action sub-action uses the new Action selector to pick an action, instead of the dropdown
* Get/Set Action state sub-actions use the new Action selector to pick an action, instead of the dropdown
* Websocket Service error dialogs use new timeout capable dialog
* Update Viewer details display to not show Twitch specific data (Bits, Channel Points) for non-Twitch users.
* Add option to Fetch Url sub-action to parse the response as json.  This will walk the json and add all values as variables
::

## Fixes
::changelog-list{type=fix}
* Fix typos
* Tweaks to internal message parsing
::

## Details
### Simulated Events
Prior to **0.2.0**, one could test certain Twitch events from within the respective events tabs, and with the release of **0.2.0**, this was change to be able to test the `Triggers` directly.

With the addition of `Triggers`, this opened up the ability to have multiple actions triggered by the same event, so in order to test this, you would have to goto each action, and test the trigger manually.

With **0.2.3**, a new way of testing has been added, `Simulated Events`

`Simulated Events` are still initiated from a trigger's context menu, however, they will allow you to specify certain data (for instance, for a cheer, you pick the user, and specify the amount), and it will simulate this event application wide, so any triggers that match, will be run.

With this feature, also comes a way to not only search your local user cache, but, to also search against Twitch itself.

::callout{icon=i-mdi-alert color=amber}
The API used for searching only returns users who have streamed within the last 6 months, this is a limitation of the API, and is not possible to circumvent
::

### alejo.io Pronouns
With the release of alpha.19, VRFlad's extension for using alejo.io pronouns is no longer needed, as it is now a part of Streamer.bot itself.

This is the first iteration of this integration, so its not at parity with the extension yet.

Only 1 sub-action as been added so far, Add Pronouns for User, which will add a user's pronouns to the arguments.

### Startup Performance Improvements
Yes, that's right, found a few more areas that were behaving a bit slow during startup, and handled them better.

This mainly affected users with a long list of actions and/or commands.

### Trovo
After quite a while, Streamer.bot is being extended to support another platform, and this time it's Trovo

This addition is very fluid, as it takes quite a bit to get a new platform added in, and this is what's been done in a day so far, which is quite a lot for < 12 hours.

**NOTE** The bot account is currently disabled, it will be enabled in a future version

What's supported
* Logging in to your streamer account
* Broadcaster Chat Connected/Disconnected
* Bot Chat Connected/Disconnected
* Chat Message Trigger
* Follow Trigger
* Stream Online/Offline Trigger
* Sub-action to send a chat message
* Added Trovo Message as a source for Commands
* Sub-action to Clear Chat
* Sub-action to Get Latest Follower

### Speaker.bot Integration
It's been asked for, for a while, but here is the start of a more direct integration with Speaker.bot.

The new sub-action that was added, has 3 ways it can work.

1. How you're use to with the UDP in a fire and forget fashion
2. Silent option, when selected, this will only process the speech, and, if the setting is enabled in Speaker.bot, write the audio to a file, and will add a `%speechFile%` argument so you can pass it to a Play Sound sub-action, or other
3. Delay option, the most requested feature, yes, this will delay the sub-action from continuing until the audio has been played by Speaker.bot

Using either the Silent or Delay option also introduces a timeout of 30 seconds, so it does not get stuck, in a future version, this may be configurable (within reason)

There are new sub-actions for interacting with **Speaker.bot** as well
* Set Enabled State
* Set Paused State
* Stop Speaking
* Clear Pending

**NOTE** This integration requires **Speaker.bot v0.1.3**

### File Tail Service
With alpha.9, you can now tail a file. Once you have configured a file to tail, every time a new line is encountered, it will the File Tail Changed trigger to happen.

This trigger has the potential to be a high volume trigger, so be sure to exclude from the action history if it is going to be a lot of activity.

### Fourthwall
New to this alpha is Fourthwall integration. This requires configuring via the website. So go to https://streamer.bot/, and log in to your account, then go to settings, and you should see Fourthwall on the left with the information required to configure the webhooks.

Be sure that the Streamer.bot Website integration is also logged in and connected.

All event types are supported.

### Updates to Import/Export
The Importing/Exporting of Actions and Commands has grown! You can now also import/export timed actions, and custom websocket servers and clients.

The other change, for flagging an action to Auto Run on import. When a user performs an import, and an action has been configured to auto run, the user will be prompted if they want it to run, only if they agree will it be triggered.

### Headless Mode
You read that right, you can now run Streamer.bot headless, as in no GUI, only a log file.

Consider this mode very very experimental, since there is no GUI initialization anymore, any actions/sub-actions that rely on UI elements will likely crash, I still need to go through and handle these.

To run Streamer.bot in headless mode, just add `/headless`, and to stop it, add `/shutdown` when running it.
`Streamer.bot.exe /headless`
`Streamer.bot.exe /shutdown`

### New Twitch Scopes
The following new scopes are being requested on your Twitch Broadcaster account:
* channel:manage:ads
* channel:read:ads

### New C# Methods
Added the following new C# methods
```cs
List<GlobalVariableValue> GetGlobalVarValues(bool persisted = true);
```
`GlobalVariableValue` class
```cs
public class GlobalVariableValue
{
    public string VariableName { get; set; }
    public object Value { get; set; }
    public DateTime LastWrite { get; set; }
}
```
```cs
bool TryGetArg(string argName, out object value);
bool TryGetArg<T>(string argName, out T value);
```
```cs
void ClearNonPersistedGlobals();
void ClearNonPersistedUserGlobals();
```