---
title: Streamer.bot v0.2.4
description: Upcoming changes in the next release!
version: 0.2.4
releaseDate: null
badge: Alpha
---

## New Features
::changelog-list{type=new}
* Add handling of `Twitch VIP Removed`
* Add new Trigger, `Twitch VIP Removed`
* Add new [Short Cut Key](#shortcut-keys) Handling
* Add new event from [HypeRate.io](#hyperateio), `Twitch Clip Created`
* Add new scopes for Twitch Broadcaster account
* Load Twitch Broadcaster's available emotes on login
* Add new triggers for Twitch Unban request events (create, deny, approve)
* Add new trigger for Twitch unban and untime out events
* Add initial Elgato Facecam Mk.2 support
* Add trigger for Twitch Auto Reward Redemptions
* Add [Pally.gg](#pallygg) integration
* Add new Twitch sub-action, Set Channel Branded Content
* Add new context menu for Run Action sub-action to goto the action selected
* Add new `Remote Trigger` and `Remote Signal` features to [Streamer.bot](#streamerbot-website)
* Add 2 new triggers for when a Streamer.bot instance is connected or disconnected
* Add local signals, this mirrors remote signals, but without the network round trip lag
* Add 2 new sub-actions, `Send Local Signal` and `Wait For Local Signal`
* Add new `Simulated Event`, `Custom Event`, allowing you to trigger Custom Events outside of C#
* Add **REDACTED**
::

## Updates
::changelog-list{type=update}
* Update how `No Delete` confirmation is handled internally
* Add a delete confirmation to MIDI In/Out and MIDI Events
* Add a delete confirmation to Timed Actions
* Misc updates and tweaks to some internal methods
* Move Twitch VIP Add to EventSub from PubSub
* Update `TryGetArgs` to convert data if a different type is used
* Add some new icons in the burger menu
* Promote some Twitch EventSub subscriptions to GA
* Remove `VStream`
* Switch a lot of `Twitch PubSub` events to `EventSub` counterparts
* Add option to `Read Random Line from File` sub-action to overwrite variables
* Improve the underlying socket code for the `Streamer.bot Website` integration
::

## Fixes
::changelog-list{type=fix}
* Handle errors when trying to send an empty Twitch message
* Handle errors trying to send Twitch messages when Broadcaster is not connected yet
* Handle errors when trying to make changes to Twitch Channel Rewards when Broadcaster is not connected yet
* Handle another potential crash when connecting to VTubeStudio
* Handle sub-actions that no longer exist in SB instead of crashing
* Fix `Streamlabs` disconnect event triggering a connect event
* Fix `Streamlabs` triggers indicating they are Streamelements
* Fix Twitch user being flagged as Mod when given VIP
* Fix Twitch Timeout Trigger not working
* Fix Twitch Stream Update Websocket data
* Fix C# Midi Send Raw methods, they were outright failing
* Fix C# Midi Send NoteOn/ControlChange methods, channel range check was wrong
* Possible fix related to importing old import strings crashing **Streamer.bot**
::

## Details
### Twitch
#### New Scopes
The following scopes are required on the broadcaster account now, these supoport the move from PubSub events to EventSub events
* user:read:emotes
* moderator:manage:unban_requests
* moderator:read:moderators
* moderator:read:vips
#### PubSub
It was mentioned in the last TwitchDev broadcast, that sometime in the near future PubSub would be deprecated. So starting with this alpha, I have moved a good majority of the events that rely on PubSub over to there counterparts on EventSub.

#### IMPORTANT
Take note, there are breaking changes with the update to EventSub for some events, specifically for those that rely on Streamer.bot's websocket messages.

This will affect the following events:
* Timeout
* Untimeout
* Ban
* Unban
* Clear Chat
* Moderator Add
* Moderator Remove
* VIP Add
* VIP Remove

There are 4 events still left on PubSub, and they are:
* Ad Midroll
* Viewer Count Update
* Community Goal Contribution
* Community Goal Ended

The 2 community goal events do not have an equivalent in EventSub (yet), these goals are the channel point based goals, which seem to be overlooked by Twitch.

The Ad Midroll event will likely be going away, and I will expand the new Ad event that was introduced in 0.2.3.

The Viewer Count Update event has no EventSub counterpart, so this will require other means to obtain, but may not be as accurate.
#### Auto Reward Redemptions
These rewards, are the 5 fixed ones that you can enable/disable in your channel points.

These rewards are also now being tracked in the twitch data db.

Before it's asked, no, you can not enable/disable them from SB, as there are no API endpoints to do this as of this version.
### HypeRate.io
HypeRate added a new feature to auto clip on Twitch, and the new event is related to this, it only triggers when HypeRate itself has created a clip.

THIS IS NOT an event for whenever a Twitch Clip is created, that does not exist in Twitch's EventSub/API capabilities at the moment.
### Pally.gg
`Pally.gg` is now supported!

In order to setup `Pally.gg`, you will need an API Key from there website. You can get this from your dashboard.

#### Triggers Added
* Connected
* Disconnected
* Campaign Tip

### Streamer.bot Website
The interop between the website and the application got a bit of a boost with 2 new features!

Remote Triggers, and Remote Signaling

For both of these features to function, while in alpha, `0.2.4-alpha.5` is the minimum required version for `Triggers`, and `0.2.4-alpha.6` for `Signals`.

This feature **REQUIRES** both instances of **Streamer.bot** to have the `Website Integration` connected.

#### Remote Triggers
You can now send a trigger to another instance of Streamer.bot that is logged into your account.

Much like the C# activate trigger, you are able to add a **Streamer.bot** Remote Instance Trigger trigger to an action, and specify any or a specific origin instance, as well as the custom name for the event. In another copy of **Streamer.bot**, you can use the **Streamer.bot** Remote Instance Trigger sub-action, to trigger that remote trigger.

You can also see an event history on the website under your settings, with the ability to replay triggers from there.

#### Remote Signals
You are now able to wait for signals sent by other instances.

There are 2 new sub-actions added:
* Send Remote Signal
* Wait For Remote Signal

The premise behind these 2 sub-actions is a way to communicate with another remote instance of **Streamer.bot**.

#### Send Signal
This will allow you to send a named signal, with or without arguments to either all, or a specific Streamer.bot Instance

#### Wait For Signal
This sub-action will, as the name implies, wait for a named signal from any or a specific Streamer.bot instance up to a specified timeout (default 30s), consume the arguments it received, and carry on with the rest of the action.

### Run Action Sub-action
This sub-action has received a custom runtime menu item, Goto Action

### Read Random Line from File
This sub-action has been updated to include an option to Overwrite Existing Variable(s)

If this is enabled, the variables added to the action, will always start at 0, and overwrite any existing.

### Local Signals
Signals have been added for the local instance of Streamer.bot, these behave the same way as there Remote counter parts, but, are meant for local usage.

### Shortcut Keys
I've gone through and hopefully fixed shortcut key, and also added a few new ones.

#### Global Keys Available
* `F1` - Launch https://docs.streamer.bot/
* `Ctrl + S` - Save
* `Ctrl + Alt + I` - Open Import Dialog
* `Ctrl + Alt + E` - Open Export Dialog
* `Ctrl + Alt + C` - Open Chat
* `Ctrl + Alt + V` - Open Variable Viewer

Actions, Sub-Actions, Triggers, Commands, Timed Actions, MIDI In/Out, MIDI Events, and Quotes all have shortcut keys as well.