---
title: Streamer.bot v1.0.0
description: Next Major Version!
version: 1.0.0
releaseDate: null
badge: Alpha
---

### Hey Everyone,

I wanted to give a brief update about **Streamer.bot 1.0**. At the moment, the current alpha, ‘alpha.36’, seems to be fairly stable. I don’t anticipate many more alpha updates. The good news is that a `beta` and/or `stable` release is on the horizon.

Now, I don't like bringing this up, but it’s becoming more of a problem as time goes on. I've been out of work since **August 2024**. That's almost a year now, and my Patreon for **Streamer.bot** is the only thing that has been keeping me afloat.

**Streamer.bot** is going to be turning **5** years old pretty soon, and I've kept it **free** this entire time (and it will remain free) as a kind of passion project. With new features being added so regularly, **Streamer.bot** has grown to be so much more than simply something to mess with in my free time. As it is, **Streamer.bot**, will always be **free**, this is not changing.  Nevertheless, **1.0** will be bringing some **new** advanced features that will start costing money to implement on the backend, so they will be **supporter perks**, available to those subscribing at the lowest `Thank You` Patreon tier. To be perfectly honest – the more support there is on Patreon overall, the more that can be kept free.

Many might not realize, but **Streamer.bot** isn’t some startup with dozens of developers working on it. It is a registered business in Ontario, Canada. But the programming and development is pretty much a **one-man** show. (I do get help from Whipstickgostop for everything website-related; I do not want to diminish his contributions in the slightest. Kudos should also go to Lyfesaver and everyone on the support staff as well) Similarly, running **Streamer.bot** and the supporting website and services also cost money. There are fees related to the code signing certificate, IFTTT, domains, servers, etc. As a business, I do my best to present everything as professionally as possible. While I may not create content on `YouTube`, `Twitch` or the like, I still provide a valuable tool for those who do, and I think it's time I hopefully can start benefitting from it.

Thank you, sincerely thank you to everyone who has been using **Streamer.bot** over the years, it means a lot to see the community that has been built around it, and it still blows my mind that I created something like this.  **Streamer.bot**, and **Speaker.bot** are not going anywhere and I plan on working on them for years to come.

**Yours truly,**
nate1280
CEO/DEV Streamer.bot

So, here is what's available in **alpha.37** available now, for those subscribed to the `Bronze Tier` on Patreon to use and test!
## Kick
Yes, you read that right! `Kick` is becoming the fourth platform added to **Streamer.bot**!

After thinking long and hard, and going back and forth on possible implementations of time/cost for getting it done, `Kick` is being supported, but will require a connection on the website in order to make it work.  This means the website is acting as a relay in order to get events from `Kick`.

While in alpha, any alpha user will have access to it, and once it is released to stable/beta, the `Thank You` tier on my Patreon will be required to use it, to support the back-end services.
## Cloud Backups
While backups have always been created, and more recently you're able to change the backup folder, **Streamer.bot 1.0** is bringing `Cloud Backups`.  You will be able to manually create a backup that is stored on the **Streamer.bot** servers, and can also restore your **Streamer.bot** from one of these backups.

While in alpha, any alpha user will have access to them with limits based on the Patreon tier they are subscribed at.  Once it is released to stable/beta, the `Thank You` tier will be required with lower limits than the `Bronze Tier`
## Custom Webhooks
**Streamer.bot** currently supports **4** services through webhooks: `Patreon`, `Kofi`, `Fourthwall` and `Shopify`.  Since Webhooks require an intermediary site with full SSL capabilities typically, `Custom Webhooks` are being introduced. These will allow you to create your own webhooks to (almost) any site that supports them.

While in alpha, any alpha user will have access to them with limits based on the Patreon tier they are subscribed at.  Once it is released to stable/beta, the `Thank You` tier will be required with lower limits than the `Bronze Tier`

**NOTE** There will be a few sites that will be outright denied from creating webhooks for, largely for volume reasons, and this will be monitored for abuse.
## Decks 2.0
Yes, `Decks 2.0` are also being released! `Decks 2.0` will remain mostly free, however there will be some modest limits placed on them, and subscribing to Patreon will increase these limits based on the subscription tier.

## New Features
::changelog-list{type=new}
* `UI` Converted to `WPF`
* **Dark Mode**
* `Kick Platform` support
* Cloud Backups
* Custom Webhooks
* Decks 2.0
* Nestable sub-action groups
* Sub-action groups can have their own color!
* `Logic If/Else` has been updated, `true`/`false` are now groups, and can add `sub-actions` directly to them
* New `Logic Switch Case` sub-action
* New `Logic While` sub-action
* `Execute C# Code` sub-action now uses the `Monaco` editor
* `HotKeys` are now at a trigger level, and support any combination
* Add `YouTube` poll handling for starting and updating.
* `Streamer.bot` has been updated to .NET 4.8.1
* Add new sub-actions for `Meld Studio`, `Set Browser Layer Url` and `Take Vertival Screenshot`
* Added a `User Profile` drop down in the `Title Bar` for your `Streamer.bot Account`
* Add new Triggers for `Global Variable Created` and `Global Variable Deleted`
* Add new sub-actions to add `YouTube` and `Trovo` broadcaster information
* Add support for `7TV Zero Width` emotes
* Add new inline function, `$parse()$`
* Add new option `Minimize to Tray on Close`
* Add ability to change the `Backup Folder` location
* Add ability to manually create a `Backup`
* Add `Auto-Save`, this will happen every **5** minutes
* Add a new context menu item in `Global Variable Viewer` for `Persisted` and `Non-Persisted` user tabs to delete the selected variable for **all** users
* Add a warning to `Import`, when the `Import` contains an `Execute C# Code` sub-action
* Add new `Default` settings for `Actions` and `Commands`
* Add ability to add a path mapping to the `HTTP Server` allowing for hosting files
* All `Sub-Actions` and `Triggers` that are editable, now have a `?` help button in their dialog that opens the docs site
* Add a new Trigger, `Clipboard Changed`, for when data is put on the `Clipboard`
* Add a new Sub-Action, `Streamlabs Spin Wheel` to trigger a wheel spin on `Streamlabs`
* Add `Group` criteria to `Group Users Added` and `Group Users Removed` triggers
* Add `Group` criteria to `Group Cleared` trigger
* Add a list of connected `Stream Deck` applications to the `Elgato Stream Deck` Integration page
* Add new `C# Methods` for `Trovo`
* Add `Twitch Suspicious User Message` event and Trigger
* Add 2 new `YouTube` sub-actions to `Create Poll` and `End Poll`
::

## Updates
::changelog-list{type=update}
* Update common libraries and packages
* Update `Twitch EventSub AutoMod` subscriptions
* `Twitch PubSub` is no longer used
* Command Settings are now in the WebSocket payload
* `Logic If/Else` sub-action now adds `Regex` matches/groups as arguments
* `Twitch Add Random User` has been updated to work with groups
* Update `YouTube` and `Trovo` `Send Message` to use the updated fall back options
* Update `Twitch` `Add Target Info`, `Add Follow Age`, `Add VIP`, `Remove VIP`, `Add Team Info` and `Trovo Add Target Info` to use the new style of specifying a variable
* `WebSocket` `DoAction` now returns the `ID` and initial arguments associated with the queued `Action`
* Application Crash messages will only show once now, instead of doing a solitaire win move
* The built in `!quote` command has been removed and replaced with new sub-actions
* How to favourite/unfavourite a Trigger or Sub-Action has changed, you now do this directly on a Sub-Action or Trigger that you've added
* Update `alejo.io` Pronoun integration to support using the alt pronoun option
* Move `HTTP Get Methods` to `/api/`
* Start monitoring for `USB Removal` on demand if there are `Midi` devices configured
* Tweak how `Headless` mode is started internally
* `Twemoji` was updated to `v16.0.0`
* Update `Voicemod Client` to support `Voicemod v3`
* Require `Voicemod v3.12` as minimum version
* Add a manual check for `System.Linq` using, and auto add the `System.Core.dll` reference when using `Find Refs`
* Add `addTargetResult` argument to `Add Target Info` sub-action when it is successful
* `First Word` triggers, are now under `Chat` instead of `General` for `Twitch` and `Trovo`
* Update `YouTube` to use new `PushAPI`
* Add `Test` method to `Trovo Stream Offline` and `Trovo Stream Online` trigger
* Update `Logic If/Else` sub-action, `Does Not Exist` now supports parsing in the `Variable Name`, the end result of parsing still needs to be the literal name of an argument
::

## Fixes
::changelog-list{type=fix}
* General fixes and tweaks, too many to track over the course of 10 months
* Fix adding `Trovo Broadcaster` info to args, they were flipped
* Fixes related to `Elgato WaveLink 2.0.x`, the 4 `Input` sub-actions should work again for the microphone
* Fix forgetting `Trovo Account`, tokens were not fully cleared
* Remove a check in `Websocket Server` message handling that could cause the message queue to stop working
* Fix a potential crash when trying to connect to `Speaker.bot` with an invalid address
* Fix crash in `OBS Filter` based sub-actions when a `Source` has no filters
* Fix potential crash in `Streamlabs Client`, when an event has no data
* Fix crash when responding to a `StreamDeck` command but socket is already closed
* Fix potential crash in `OBS Flip Horizontal` and `OBS Flip Vertical` sub-actions
* Fix crash when retrieving `Twitch Channel Rewards`, and API indicates user is not an `Affiliate` or `Partner` even though they are
* Fix crash in `Voice Control` sub-actions when there are no `Voice Control Commands`
* Fix crash when browsing for a file, and the existing folder is on a drive that is no longer available
* Fix crash in `Elgato WaveLink` when getting inputs times out
* Fix crash in `Elgato WaveLink` when adding a `Filter` to an `Input` that had no filters
* Fix crash in `Streamlabs` when validating token times out
* Fix crash in `Elgato WaveLink` when events happen before fully initialized
* Fix a potential crash when browsing for folder (in any dialog that supports this) and the path is invalid
* Fix a few potential crash scenarios in `Elgato CameraHub` client
* Fix `Twemoji` parsing related to the `Variation Selector-16` unicode value
* Fix `Twitch SevenTV Emote Removed` sub-action, wording said added
* Fix potential crash when getting monitored `YouTube Broadcasts` by `Websocket`
* Fix a potential crash in `TwitchGetEmotes` and `YouTubeGetEmotes` `Websocket`/`HTTP` requests
* Fix potential crash in `Midi Out Note On` sub-action
* Fix error message for `GetUserGlobals` `HTTP`/`Websocket` request
* Fix potential crash when clearing a `Viewer Group`
* Fix `ObsSetColorSourceColor` `C# Method`, was creating hex color wrong
* Fix `Fourthwall Donation trigger` criteria not working
* Fix `Trovo Add Target Info` sub-action, was retrieving wrong user type
* Fix potential crash when handling `Websocket Subscribe` message
* Fix potential crash when handling `RunAction` requests
* Fixes/tweaks to handling of available update data
* Fix a potential crash when using `Get Commands` sub-action
* Fix `Streamer.bot` instances not properly updating their connected state
* Handle potential errors in `Voice Control` and stop monitoring when they're encountered
::

## Details
Surprise!  This has been many months in the making, but there is finally a new UI in town, and it's been completely re-written in WPF.  This means I'll have so much more flexibility.  In addition to that, there is now a `Dark Mode`, the most requested feature.

Now for the bad news, I have not tested this, so  I'm not sure how this will effect extensions that use custom designed WinForms dialogs for settings and such.  The conversion to WPF is quite simple, and I will likely post a small template at some point to get you started.

Now, this is an alpha, this means there **will** be bugs, that is the whole point of it entering this stage first.  If you wish to use this as your daily driver, be aware, things may or may not function correctly.

Want access to `alpha`, subscribe to [nate1280's Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/nate1280).  `alpha` access now starts at `Bronze Tier` or higher.
### Sub-Actions
Sub-actions got a bit of an overhaul as well, before, groups could only be top level items, now, they can be nested as much as you want, more flexibility when using the random option on a group now.
#### Logic If/Else
Logic If/Else has received a power-up, no longer do you need to specify an action to run for the true/false parts, you can now just add your sub-actions directly to the true/false groups, and because these are containers, that means you can nest groups as well.
#### Logic Switch
New with this release is a new Logic sub-action, the Switch Case.  Same applies to this sub-action, add your logic switch, and you can add case groups, which can in turn have sub-actions nested in them
#### Logic While
New with this release is the `Logic While` sub-action.  Yes, that means you can finally perform loops within a single action without needing C#!
### Global (Set) Sub-Action Changes
The `Argument` source has been removed, and there is now only `Value`, `Increment` and `Decrement`.

The `Value` source now supports **parsing and inline methods** as well as an **auto-type** option. `Increment` and `Decrement` have been updated to support parsing and inline methods.

Configuration upgrades will happen and update any `Global (Set)` sub-actions, this will change any that are set to `Argument` and update the value to be surrounded by **%**, and change it to `Value` source type. Upgrades will also happen for `Imports`.
### Inline Function,
A new function has been added, `$parse()$`, that will allow for a 2nd level of variable parsing.

This would be of benefit for the newly added `Logic While` sub-action.

As an example, ff you are using the global `~idx~` as your test variable, and incrementing this within the while loop.  You would then be able to use the inline method like `$parse(rawInput~idx~)$` which would internally parse to `%rawInput#%`, and finally would return the value of the `%rawInput#%` argument. In this example, `rawInput` is the argument you're wanting to get an indexed position of, this is typically used in most `Message` based triggers
### Twitch
Twitch PubSub is being deprecated in April, so that means it's finally time to remove PubSub from the connection list for the Broadcaster Account.

What this means, the Ad Mid Roll sub-action no longer exists (to this day, still really don't know what it did), Channel Point Community Goals will cease to work until they're added to EventSub, and the Viewer count pulse has been updated to use other methods.
### Twitch Shared Chat
Handling of `Twitch Shared Chat` has been updated a bit, there are now **3** arguments added to most `Twitch` events.
* `isInSharedChat` - This will indicate if the event happened while in a Shared Chat,
* `isSharedChatHost` - This will indicate if the Broadcaster is the host of the Shared Chat,
* `isFromSharedChatGuest` - This will indicate if the event is from a Shared Chat's Guest's Channel,
These 3 arguments are in all Shared Chat events, as well as the non-shared chat event counter parts.
### Quotes
Quotes got a small overhaul, the built in `!quote` command is no more, it has been replaced with various sub-actions, so you now have full control over adding, deleting quotes by any means.
### HTTP Server
You read that right, you can now serve **local files** with the `HTTP Server`! Simply add a `Path Mapping` to the `HTTP Server` settings, and you can access any file/folder from that `Mapping`.

The current methods are being moved to an `/api/` prefix, and they will continue to work for now but consider them deprecated, and will eventually be removed.  Be sure to update any usages to use the `/api/` equivalent.
### Voicemod
The `Voicemod` integration has been udpated to support `v3`, and version `3.12` is now the **minimum required** version for the integration.

With the update, the `Voicemod Set Censor State` sub-action was removed, as well as 2 C# methods, `VoiceModCensorOn()` and `VoiceModCensorOff()`, as the methods for these no longer work.
## Kick Platform
Yes, you read that right, as of `alpha.37`, **Streamer.bot** now supports `Kick` as an official platform.  Be sure to read the previous information in alpha-releases or announcements.

Overall the `Kick API` is still a bit of a mess, and everything that can be implemented has been.  And as mentioned, to use this platform integration, you **must** link your Kick account on the website as well!

There are new sub-actions and triggers for Kick, support for `Kick Message` as a Command source, `Kick` will show up in the chat as well as obs overlay chat.
### How To Link Kick
Due to the way `Kick` is setup, you will need to not only login to Kick within Streamer.bot, you will also need to login to the `Streamer.bot Website`, and link your `Kick` account there to.

After this, you will be able to connect to the client.  It requires you to be logged into `Streamer.bot`, bottom-left corner of your `Streamer.bot` window.
## Cloud Backup
You will be able to manually create backups that are encrypted and uploaded to *Streamer.bot's** website, as well as being able to restore from these backups.
## Custom Webhooks
You will be able to create custom webhooks, and have the data forwarded to your **Streamer.bot**, much like the existing webhooks, except they can be used for any site that supports webhooks.  This feature will be monitored for abuse and limits put in place if anything like this is detected
## Decks 2.0
They've been teased for a while, but `Decks 2.0` are also here!  This includes a handful of sub-actions to interact with the decks themselves, much like `Elgato Stream Deck`

There are also **6** new sub-actions allowing you to set various properties/values of deck buttons.

## New Website
Whipstickgostop has been hard at work, and there is a new website that launched alongside this update, both as a refresh and to support all the new features.
### C# Changes
The following C# methods have been updated to account for the new `useBot` and `fallback` options.
```cs
void SendYouTubeMessage(string message, bool useBot = true, bool fallback = true, string broadcastId = null);
void SendYouTubeMessageToLatestMonitored(string message,bool useBot = true, bool fallback = true);
void SendTrovoMessage(string message, bool useBot = true, bool fallback = true);
```
The following C# Methods have been added for `Trovo`
```cs
TrovoUserInfo TrovoGetBroadcaster();
TrovoUserInfo TrovoGetBot();

bool TrovoTimeoutUser(string userName, int duration, bool bot = false);
bool TrovoBanUser(string userName, bool bot = false);
bool TrovoUnbanUser(string userName, bool bot = false);

bool TrovoSetTitle(string title);
```
The following C# Methods have been added for `Kick`
```cs
void SendKickMessage(string message, bool useBot = true, bool fallback = true);
void KickReplyToMessage(string message, string replyId, bool useBot = true, bool fallback = true);

KickUserInfo KickGetBroadcaster();
KickUserInfo KickGetBot();

bool KickSetTitle(string title);
KickCategory KickSetCategory(string categoryName);

bool KickTimeoutUser(string username, int duration, string reason = null, bool bot = false);
bool KickBanUser(string userName, string reason = null, bool bot = false);
bool KickUnbanUser(string userName, bool bot = false);

List<UserVariableValue<T>> GetKickUsersVar<T>(string varName, bool persisted = true);
T GetKickUserVarById<T>(string userId, string varName, bool persisted = true);
T GetKickUserVar<T>(string userName, string varName, bool persisted = true);
void SetKickUserVarById(string userId, string varName, object value, bool persisted = true);
void SetKickUsersVarById(List<string> userIds, string varName, object value, bool persisted = true);
void IncrementAllKickUsersVar(string varName, object value, bool persisted = true);
void IncrementKickUsersVarById(List<string> userIds, string varName, object value, bool persisted = true);
void IncrementOrCreateKickUsersVarById(List<string> userIds, string varName, object value, bool persisted = true);
void SetKickUserVar(string userName, string varName, object value, bool persisted = true);
void UnsetKickUserVarById(string userId, string varName, bool persisted = true);
void UnsetKickUserVar(string userName, string varName, bool persisted = true);
void UnsetKickUserById(string userId, bool persisted = true);
void UnsetKickUser(string userName, bool persisted = true);
```
`KickCategory` class
```cs
public class KickCategory
{
public int Id { get; set; }
public string Name { get; set; }
public string Thumbnail { get; set; }
}
```