---
title: Streamer.bot v1.0.1
description: Hot fix update!
version: 1.0.1
releaseDate: 2025-08-27
badge: Latest
---

As with any major release, there is bound to be some issues that fall through the cracks and/or get missed during the alpha/beta cycles.  This is why these testing phases are so important.

Streamer.bot 1.0.1 addresses some issues that came up, fixes some other things, and even adds some new things.

## New Features
* Add **2** new `Sub-Actions`, `File Exists` and `Folder Exists`
* When clicking `Save` a `Toast` is shown when the save is complete
* When `Adding` or `Removing` items from an export a `Toast` is shown to indicated something happened
* Add an `Account Settings` button to the `User Profile` popup
* Add `Reply To` to `Kick Messages` both in arguments, and `Websocket payload`

## Updates
* Adjust the Minimum `Width` and `Height` for the main `Streamer.bot` window
* Tweaks to `Settings` -> `Backups` page, using events to also check for permissions
* Add a way to cancel editing the `Twitch SubCounter` value
* Update the `Minimum Width` and `Height` for `Chat` and `Events`
* Update the `Monaco` editor to use a light theme if Streamer.bot is configured to use a light theme
* Fallback to plain editor when trying to load the `Monaco` editor fails in the `Execute C# Code` dialog
* When installing an update, create a backup of your settings, this will start happening after `1.0.1`
* Add the program version to the backup file name
* Bring back support for VoiceMod 2.48 to 2.51, and 3.12 and higher

## Fixes
* Fix typos
* When re-indexing `Quotes`, reload them in UI
* Fix deleting `Triggers` with the `Delete` key not deleting the full selection
* Fix `Command Deleted` broadcasting the wrong event type
* Fix potential crash related to the icons used for `Platforms` and `Stream Apps`
* Fix potential internal crash on the `Websocket` when `Simulating` some `Twitch Moderation` events
* Fix potential crash when closing any `Midi OUT` sub-actions and there are no `Midi IN` devices
* Fix `Track Top` in `Services` -> `Credits` not saving
* Fix `Crowd Control Effect` triggers, `Pack Name` filter not saving correctly
* Fix `Status` indicators for `OBS Studio`, `Meld Studio` and `Streamlabs Desktop`
* Fix saving the `Twitch SubCounter` value not saving the value
* Fix internal expiry of a `Kick` user that's flagged as subscribed from chat message events
* Fix not being able to change log level
* Fix potential crash when displaying `Key Press` trigger
* Handle an odd behavior from `YouTube`, the `DefaultLanguage` property would flip between values despite not actually changing
* Handle when the `WebView2` proccess crashes and brings down either the `Inline Chat` or `Events` windows
* Fix potential crash when `Finding Refs` in the `Execute C# Code` dialog
* Fix potential crash when adding a `Set Command State` sub-action and there are no `Commands`
* Fix potential crash when trying to format an empty document in the `Execute C# Code` dialog
* Handle a startup crash when unable to load the `Quotes` file, suer will be notified to restore a backup
* Fix potential crash when logging into `Kick`
* Fix potential crash when running a `Concurrent` `Action`
* Fix not being able to double click to edit a `switch case`
* Fix `Hot Key` upgrades from `0.2.x` to `1.0.0`, see notes
* Fix `Action` upgrades from `0.2.x` to `1.0.0`, see notes

## Details
### VoiceMod
Since quite a few would rather use VoiceMod v2 instead of v3 for various reasons, I have brought back support for VoiceMod 2.48 to 2.51, as well as VoiceMod 3.12+

The `Set Censor State` sub-action has returned, but do take note, this only works for VoiceMod v2
### New Sub-Actions
This release introduces **2** new sub-actions, `File Exists` and `Folder Exists`. You can use either of these sub-actions to determine if a file or folder exists, supports parsing, and your own variable to put the result in.
### Kick
Aside from the occasional service slowdown from `Kick`, the integration seems to be working well.  However, we have noticed that the number of connections has plateaued a bit, and after some investigation, it appears as tho `Kick` has a **limit** on Webhook subscriptions and you need to contact them to get this limit raised, which we have done and are just waiting to hear back from them now.

The day **1.0.0** released, Kick added reply to data to chat messages.  WIth **1.0.1** this data is now available in the Kick Message event and Websocket payload data.
### Hot Keys
When upgrading from `0.2.x` to `1.0` Hot Keys were converted to the new format of the `Key Press` trigger.  Unfortunately, during the alpha it was missed that this is not a straight conversion and required a conversion table to correctly convert some of the keys.

With version `1.0.1`, this conversion is done correctly.  So, if you were sitting on `0.2.8` and waiting, upgrading to `1.0.1` will correctly convert your `Hot Keys`. This change cannot be applied to those who have already updated to `1.0.0`, because it was not every key and there were overlaps.
### Actions
When upgrading from `0.2.x` to `1.0.0`, `Actions` were converted to the new nestable format, during this change there was a bug when dealing with sub-actions that were in a group that was missed during the alpha/beta cycles, which would cause sub-actions to be out of order.  This happened with imports as well.

With version `1.0.1` this has been fixed, and the conversion works as it should and retains ordering of the sub-actions.  If you have been holding off on upgrading because of this bug, you should be able to upgrade now, and as always, backup and run a test to double check.

This fix is not something that can be done retroactively and requires updating from `0.2.x` to `1.0.1` to upgrade correctly.  Or, creating an export in `0.2.x` and importing into `1.0.1`.
### Notes
I wanted to thank everyone who has upgrade and all the positive feedback so far.

For those that are `Patreon` supporters, be sure to link your `Patreon` account on the `Streamer.bot Website` in your `Account Settings` to claim your **supporter perks**.

If you wish to support me, or this project, please head over to https://www.patreon.com/nate1280. Remember, **supporter perks** start at the Thank You tier.
